[docs] Batch10 date and time functions (#16900)
apache/druid: docs/querying/sql-scalar.md

simplest way to write literal timestamps in other time zones is to use TIME_PARSE, like
`TIME_PARSE('2000-02-01 00:00:00', NULL, 'America/Los_Angeles')`.

> The best ways to filter based on time are by using ISO 8601 intervals, like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best way to filter based on time is by using ISO 8601 intervals, like
```

|`CURRENT_TIMESTAMP`|Current timestamp in the connection's time zone.|
|`CURRENT_DATE`|Current date in the connection's time zone.|
|`DATE_TRUNC(unit, timestamp_expr)`|Rounds down a timestamp, returning it as a new timestamp. Unit can be 'milliseconds', 'second', 'minute', 'hour', 'day', 'week', 'month', 'quarter', 'year', 'decade', 'century', or 'millennium'.|

> |`TIME_CEIL(timestamp_expr, period[, origin[, timezone]])`|Rounds up a timestamp, returning it as a new timestamp. Period can be any ISO 8601 period, like P3M (quarters) or PT12H (half-days). Specify `origin` as a timestamp to set the reference time for rounding. For example, `TIME_CEIL(__time, 'PT1H', TIMESTAMP '2016-06-27 00:30:00')` measures an hourly period from 00:30-01:30 instead of 00:00-01:00. See [Period granularities](granularities.md) for details on the default starting boundaries. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or offset like `-08:00`. This function is similar to `CEIL` but is more flexible.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`TIME_CEIL(timestamp_expr, period[, origin[, timezone]])`|Rounds up a timestamp, returning it as a new timestamp. Period can be any ISO 8601 period, like P3M (quarters) or PT12H (half-days). Specify `origin` as a timestamp to set the reference time for rounding. For example, `TIME_CEIL(__time, 'PT1H', TIMESTAMP '2016-06-27 00:30:00')` measures an hourly period from 00:30-01:30 instead of 00:00-01:00. See [Period granularities](granularities.md) for details on the default starting boundaries. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or an offset like `-08:00`. This function is similar to `CEIL` but is more flexible.|
```

> |`TIME_FLOOR(timestamp_expr, period[, origin[, timezone]])`|Rounds down a timestamp, returning it as a new timestamp. Period can be any ISO 8601 period, like P3M (quarters) or PT12H (half-days). Specify `origin` as a timestamp to set the reference time for rounding. For example, `TIME_FLOOR(__time, 'PT1H', TIMESTAMP '2016-06-27 00:30:00')` measures an hourly period from 00:30-01:30 instead of 00:00-01:00. See [Period granularities](granularities.md) for details on the default starting boundaries. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or offset like `-08:00`. This function is similar to `FLOOR` but is more flexible.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`TIME_FLOOR(timestamp_expr, period[, origin[, timezone]])`|Rounds down a timestamp, returning it as a new timestamp. Period can be any ISO 8601 period, like P3M (quarters) or PT12H (half-days). Specify `origin` as a timestamp to set the reference time for rounding. For example, `TIME_FLOOR(__time, 'PT1H', TIMESTAMP '2016-06-27 00:30:00')` measures an hourly period from 00:30-01:30 instead of 00:00-01:00. See [Period granularities](granularities.md) for details on the default starting boundaries. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or an offset like `-08:00`. This function is similar to `FLOOR` but is more flexible.|
```

> |`TIME_SHIFT(timestamp_expr, period, step[, timezone])`|Shifts a timestamp by a period (step times), returning it as a new timestamp. Period can be any ISO 8601 period. Step may be negative. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or offset like `-08:00`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`TIME_SHIFT(timestamp_expr, period, step[, timezone])`|Shifts a timestamp by a period (step times), returning it as a new timestamp. `period` can be any ISO 8601 period. `step` can be a negative value. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or an offset like `-08:00`.|
```

Author: Same as above, I do not like starting a sentence with code format, will re-write

Author: "|`TIME_SHIFT(timestamp_expr, period, step[, timezone])`|Shifts a timestamp by a period (step times), returning it as a new timestamp. The `period` parameter can be any ISO 8601 period, and the `step` parameter can be negative. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or offset like `-08:00`.|"

> |`TIME_SHIFT(timestamp_expr, period, step[, timezone])`|Shifts a timestamp by a period (step times), returning it as a new timestamp. The `period` parameter can be any ISO 8601 period. The `step` parameter can be negative. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or offset like `-08:00`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`TIME_SHIFT(timestamp_expr, period, step[, timezone])`|Shifts a timestamp by a period (step times), returning it as a new timestamp. The `period` parameter can be any ISO 8601 period. The `step` parameter can be negative. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or an offset like `-08:00`.|
```

> |`TIME_EXTRACT(timestamp_expr, unit[, timezone])`|Extracts a time part from `expr`, returning it as a number. Unit can be EPOCH, SECOND, MINUTE, HOUR, DAY (day of month), DOW (day of week), DOY (day of year), WEEK (week of [week year](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_week_date)), MONTH (1 through 12), QUARTER (1 through 4), or YEAR. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or offset like `-08:00`. This function is similar to `EXTRACT` but is more flexible. Unit and time zone must be literals, and must be provided quoted, like `TIME_EXTRACT(__time, 'HOUR')` or `TIME_EXTRACT(__time, 'HOUR', 'America/Los_Angeles')`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`TIME_EXTRACT(timestamp_expr, unit[, timezone])`|Extracts a time part from `expr`, returning it as a number. Unit can be EPOCH, SECOND, MINUTE, HOUR, DAY (day of month), DOW (day of week), DOY (day of year), WEEK (week of [week year](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_week_date)), MONTH (1 through 12), QUARTER (1 through 4), or YEAR. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or an offset like `-08:00`. This function is similar to `EXTRACT` but is more flexible. The `unit` and `timezone` parameters must be provided as quoted literals, such as `TIME_EXTRACT(__time, 'HOUR')` or `TIME_EXTRACT(__time, 'HOUR', 'America/Los_Angeles')`.|
```

> |`TIME_EXTRACT(timestamp_expr, unit[, timezone])`|Extracts a time part from `expr`, returning it as a number. Unit can be EPOCH, SECOND, MINUTE, HOUR, DAY (day of month), DOW (day of week), DOY (day of year), WEEK (week of [week year](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_week_date)), MONTH (1 through 12), QUARTER (1 through 4), or YEAR. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or an offset like `-08:00`. This function is similar to `EXTRACT` but is more flexible. The `unit` and `timezone` parameters must be provided as quoted literals, such as `TIME_EXTRACT(__time, 'HOUR')` or `TIME_EXTRACT(__time, 'HOUR', 'America/Los_Angeles')`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`TIME_EXTRACT(timestamp_expr, unit[, timezone])`|Extracts a time part from `expr`, returning it as a number. Unit can be EPOCH, SECOND, MINUTE, HOUR, DAY (day of month), DOW (day of week), DOY (day of year), WEEK (week of [week year](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_week_date)), MONTH (1 through 12), QUARTER (1 through 4), or YEAR. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or an offset like `-08:00`. The `unit` and `timezone` parameters must be provided as quoted literals, such as `TIME_EXTRACT(__time, 'HOUR')` or `TIME_EXTRACT(__time, 'HOUR', 'America/Los_Angeles')`. This function is similar to `EXTRACT` but is more flexible. |
```

> |`TIME_PARSE(string_expr[, pattern[, timezone]])`|Parses a string into a timestamp using a given [Joda DateTimeFormat pattern](http://www.joda.org/joda-time/apidocs/org/joda/time/format/DateTimeFormat.html), or ISO 8601 (e.g. `2000-01-02T03:04:05Z`) if the pattern is not provided. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or offset like `-08:00`, and will be used as the time zone for strings that do not include a time zone offset. Pattern and time zone must be literals. Strings that cannot be parsed as timestamps will be returned as NULL.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`TIME_PARSE(string_expr[, pattern[, timezone]])`|Parses a string into a timestamp using a given [Joda DateTimeFormat pattern](http://www.joda.org/joda-time/apidocs/org/joda/time/format/DateTimeFormat.html) or ISO 8601 (e.g. `2000-01-02T03:04:05Z`) if the pattern is not provided. If provided, `timezone` should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or an offset like `-08:00`. It will be used for strings without a time zone offset. Both `pattern` and `timezone` must be literals. Strings that cannot be parsed as timestamps will return NULL.|
```
Do `pattern` and `timezone` need to be quoted literals similar to `TIME_EXTRACT`?

Author: Probably should, I will try and make it match with this suggestion: https://github.com/apache/druid/pull/16900/files#r1724009889. I just do not like starting a sentence with code format

> |`TIME_PARSE(string_expr[, pattern[, timezone]])`|Parses a string into a timestamp using a given [Joda DateTimeFormat pattern](http://www.joda.org/joda-time/apidocs/org/joda/time/format/DateTimeFormat.html), or ISO 8601 (e.g. `2000-01-02T03:04:05Z`) if the pattern is not provided. If provided, `timezone` should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or offset like `-08:00`, and will be used as the time zone for strings that do not include a time zone offset. The `pattern` and `timezone` parameters must be literals. Strings that cannot be parsed as timestamps return NULL.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`TIME_PARSE(string_expr[, pattern[, timezone]])`|Parses a string into a timestamp using a given [Joda DateTimeFormat pattern](http://www.joda.org/joda-time/apidocs/org/joda/time/format/DateTimeFormat.html), or ISO 8601 (e.g. `2000-01-02T03:04:05Z`) if the pattern is not provided. If provided, `timezone` should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or an offset like `-08:00`. `timezone` is used as the time zone for strings that do not include a time zone offset. The `pattern` and `timezone` parameters must be literals. Strings that cannot be parsed as timestamps return NULL.|
```

> |`TIME_PARSE(string_expr[, pattern[, timezone]])`|Parses a string into a timestamp using a given [Joda DateTimeFormat pattern](http://www.joda.org/joda-time/apidocs/org/joda/time/format/DateTimeFormat.html), or ISO 8601 (e.g. `2000-01-02T03:04:05Z`) if the pattern is not provided. If provided, `timezone` should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or offset like `-08:00`, and will be used as the time zone for strings that do not include a time zone offset. The `pattern` and `timezone` parameters must be literals. Strings that cannot be parsed as timestamps return NULL.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`TIME_PARSE(string_expr[, pattern[, timezone]])`|Parses a string into a timestamp using a given [Joda DateTimeFormat pattern](http://www.joda.org/joda-time/apidocs/org/joda/time/format/DateTimeFormat.html), or ISO 8601 (e.g. `2000-01-02T03:04:05Z`) if the pattern is not provided. If provided, `timezone` should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or an offset like `-08:00`. `timezone` is used as the time zone for strings that do not include a time zone offset. The `pattern` and `timezone` parameters must be literals. Strings that cannot be parsed as timestamps return NULL.|
```

> |`TIME_FORMAT(timestamp_expr[, pattern[, timezone]])`|Formats a timestamp as a string with a given [Joda DateTimeFormat pattern](http://www.joda.org/joda-time/apidocs/org/joda/time/format/DateTimeFormat.html), or ISO 8601 (e.g. `2000-01-02T03:04:05Z`) if the pattern is not provided. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or offset like `-08:00`. Pattern and time zone must be literals.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`TIME_FORMAT(timestamp_expr[, pattern[, timezone]])`|Formats a timestamp as a string with a given [Joda DateTimeFormat pattern](http://www.joda.org/joda-time/apidocs/org/joda/time/format/DateTimeFormat.html) or ISO 8601 (e.g. `2000-01-02T03:04:05Z`) if the pattern is not provided. The time zone, if provided, should be a time zone name like `America/Los_Angeles` or an offset like `-08:00`. `pattern` and `timezone` must be literals.|
```

Author: Same with this, will rewrite to avoid starting with code format
